[blog] MUI X v8 alpha zero blog post (#44377)
mui/material-ui: docs/pages/blog/mui-x-v8-alpha-zero.md

---

> title: The road to MUI X V8

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: The road to MUI X v8
```

description: Explore the planned features and our roadmap to the next major version.
date: 2024-11-20T00:00:00.000Z
authors: ['josefreitas']
tags: ['MUI X', 'Product']
manualCard: true
---

We're kicking off the development of [MUI X v8](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/releases/tag/v8.0.0-alpha.0).
The Data Grid, Charts, Tree View and Date and Time Pickers are getting a new major version.
We want to share our plans and invite you to join us on this next step.

:::warning

> It's important to note that only MUI X is getting a new version—MUI Core (including Material UI) will remain in v5 for now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's important to note that only MUI X is getting a new version—MUI Core (including Material UI) will remain in v6 for now.
```

You can rest assured that all MUI X v6 components will be fully compatible with MUI Core v5.
::::

## What's the plan to get to a stable release?

> Before officially releasing v6, we'll go through a few months with pre-releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before officially releasing v8, we'll go through a few months with pre-releases.
```

## Where's the v8 documentation?

As mentioned above, v7 is still the official version, so by default, the documentation shows v7 features and API.
The next version's documentation is in the `v8` subdomain.

- [https://next.mui.com/x/](https://next.mui.com/x/)

## What's coming next?

The following is a list of enhancements in the pipeline for v8.
It contains the highlights we aim to include in the first versions:

### Data Grid

- [Drag and drop with touch support](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/15385)
- [New Toolbar](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/11584)
- [Row spanning](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/row-spanning/) (without `unstable_` prefix)
- [Pivoting](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/214) [<span class="plan-premium"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#premium-plan 'Premium plan')

### Date and Time Pickers

- [Improved visual customization](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/14753)
- [Time Range Picker](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/4460) [<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')

> - [Support for month and year edition on date range picker](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/4546) [<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')

Reviewer 2: Tangential: I don't understand the usage of the word "edition" in this issue. I read through the issue but that didn't make it any more clear to me. 😅 The feature seems to be about providing independent month and year selectors?

> - [Support for month and year edition on date range picker](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/4546) [<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')

Reviewer 2: Ah yep I think you're right, looks like this is a Frenchism 😁

<img width="586" alt="Screenshot 2024-11-13 at 8 48 26 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2ca97ffa-e721-4258-915d-78e115e2d9e7">

> - [Support for month and year edition on date range picker](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/4546) [<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')

Reviewer: editing -> selection?

> - [Support for month and year edition on date range picker](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/4546) [<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')

Reviewer 2: If I'm understanding the feature correctly, I think I'd call it "independent month and year selection."

- [Virtualization](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/9685)[<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')

### Charts

- Improved Design
- [Radar chart](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/7925)
- [Improved Data zoom](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/15383)[<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')
- [Funnel chart](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/7929)[<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')

:::info
You can check our [roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/mui/projects/35) for the full live list.
:::

## How to migrate?

As usual, we've prepared a [migration guide](https://v8.mui.com/x/migration/migration-data-grid-v7/), and we'll continuously update it as we make any breaking changes during the pre-releases.
It lists every breaking change you may need to update to migrate your codebase.

We strongly encourage you to try the new version—it builds on the solid foundation we established with v7, bringing even more improvements!

> ## How to get involved?

Reviewer 2: Also not a question—could be "How can I get involved?" but in general I think headers are better framed as action statements

```suggestion
## How to get involved
```

> Please consider joining our alpha testers group channel and [connecting with us](https://forms.gle/vsBv6CLPz9h57xg8A) for a user interview.

Author: ```suggestion
Please consider joining our alpha testers group channel and [connecting with us](https://forms.gle/vsBv6CLPz9h57xg8A) for a user interview.
```
```suggestion
We'd love to hear your feedback! Please consider [connecting with us](https://forms.gle/vsBv6CLPz9h57xg8A) for a user interview.
```

You'll get an insider's perspective on the development, and you'll be able to help us iterate early on the new features.

> As always, we're happy to get your feedback.
> You can participate in the discussion by commenting on new features or reporting bugs in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/new/choose).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We're also happy to receive feedback on new features and bug reports in our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/new/choose).
```

> Finally, you can follow every step of the development through our [changelog](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/releases).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can follow every step of the v8 development process through our [changelog](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/releases).
```

---
title: The road to MUI X v8
description: Explore the planned features and our roadmap to the next major version.
date: 2024-11-20T00:00:00.000Z
authors: ['josefreitas']
tags: ['MUI X', 'Product']

> manualCard: true

Reviewer: Why not use the default card?

```suggestion
```

---

We're kicking off the development of [MUI X v8](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/releases/tag/v8.0.0-alpha.0).
Following our yearly release cycle, the target for the first stable release is March 2025.
This major update includes new versions of the Data Grid, Charts, Tree View, and Date & Time Pickers.
We’re excited to share our roadmap with you and invite you to join us on this journey!

:::warning
Only MUI X is getting a new version—Material UI will remain in v6 for now.

> You can rest assured that all MUI X v8 components will be fully compatible with Material UI v5 and v6.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since only MUI X is getting a new version, you can rest assured that all MUI X v8 components will be fully compatible with Material UI v5 and v6.
```

Following the alpha phase, the beta phase will focus on stabilizing the APIs, fixing bugs, and refining the overall experience. This phase is anticipated to take about one month.

Finally, we'll release the first `v8.0.0` stable by March 2025, and we'll continue improving the components and adding features, but without making any new breaking changes until the next major version.

## What happens to v7?

During v8 pre-releases, v7 will continue to be the official current major, and it will remain supported during this time.
However, we will only release new v7 versions as needed to patch bugs or add community contributions.

All new features and enhancements will go to v8, and after its first stable release, v7 will officially transition to [long-term support](https://mui.com/x/introduction/support/#long-term-support-lts) status.

## Where's the v8 documentation?

As mentioned above, v7 is still the official version, so by default, the documentation shows v7 features and API.
The next version's documentation is in the `v8` subdomain.

> - [https://v8.mui.com/x/](https://v8.mui.com/x/)

Reviewer: Oh, ok, I felt `next` was better to communicate that it's not stable, e.g. https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/v1.11.x feels confusing, they have to add a banner. On the other hand, https://nextjs.org/docs/canary/app/getting-started, the unstable warning banner is less needed as it's clearer it's not stable. So 👍 for:

```suggestion
- [https://next.mui.com/x/](https://next.mui.com/x/)
```

> ## What's coming next?

Reviewer 3: Would be cool to add some of Nora's [supporting assets](https://www.figma.com/design/L9plmyQfRlj6kbOEQyqGaP/Social-media?node-id=1824-626&t=rKR9rERHbNfzgkkR-0) to the sections here

The following is a list of enhancements in the pipeline for v8.

> It contains the highlights that will be included in the first versions.

Reviewer: In case we change the plan? https://youtu.be/Vlph3dn4jnU?si=g5bc8gUV3QB4vvk1&t=4471

```suggestion
It contains the highlights of the improvement that we aim to include in the first versions.
```

> It contains the highlights that will be included in the first versions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It contains the highlights we aim to include in the first versions:
```

### Data Grid

- [Drag and drop with touch support](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/15385)
- [New Toolbar](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/11584)

> - [Row spanning](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/row-spanning/)(Without `unstable_` prefix)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Row spanning](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/row-spanning/) (without `unstable_` prefix)
```

- [Pivoting](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/214) [<span class="plan-premium"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#premium-plan 'Premium plan')

### Date and Time Pickers

- [Improved visual customization](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/14753)
- [Time Range Picker](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/4460) [<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')
- [Support for month and year edition on date range picker](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/4546) [<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')

### Tree View

- [Parent/chidren selection propagation](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/12883)
- [Lazy loading for tree items](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/9687)[<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')
- [Virtualization](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/9685)[<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')

### Charts

- Improved Design
- [Radar chart](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/7925)

> - [Improved Data Zoom](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/15383)[<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Improved Data zoom](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/15383)[<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')
```

Reviewer: https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/13798 would be cool.

- [Funnel chart](https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/7929)[<span class="plan-pro"></span>](/x/introduction/licensing/#pro-plan 'Pro plan')

:::info
You can check our [roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/mui/projects/35) for the full live list.
:::

## How to migrate?

> As usual, we've prepared a [migration guide](https://deploy-preview-6235--material-ui-x.netlify.app/x/react-data-grid/migration-v5/), and we'll continuously update it as we make any breaking changes during the pre-releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As usual, we've prepared a [migration guide](https://v8.mui.com/x/migration/migration-data-grid-v7/), and we'll continuously update it as we make any breaking changes during the pre-releases.
```

Following the alpha phase, the beta phase will focus on stabilizing the APIs, fixing bugs, and refining the overall experience. This phase is anticipated to take about one month.

Finally, we'll release the first `v8.0.0` stable by March 2025, and we'll continue improving the components and adding features, but without making any new breaking changes until the next major version.

## What happens to v7?

During v8 pre-releases, v7 will continue to be the official current major, and it will remain supported during this time.
However, we will only release new v7 versions as needed to patch bugs or add community contributions.

All new features and enhancements will go to v8, and after its first stable release, v7 will officially transition to [long-term support](https://mui.com/x/introduction/support/#long-term-support-lts) status.

## Where's the v8 documentation?

As mentioned above, v7 is still the official version, so by default, the documentation shows v7 features and API.

> The next version's documentation is in the `v8` subdomain.

Author: Fix: https://github.com/mui/material-ui/pull/44416
